IG Rescue Charity UK - Exercise

Exercise – The Italian Greyhound Rescue Charity
The Italian Greyhound Rescue Charity
How we can help
Place an IG into lifetime care
Short-term emergency care
Plan for your IG’s future
Advice on an IG Issue
For Vets & other Rescues
Meet the team
About IGs
Personality & temperament
Feeding & nutrition
Exercise
Exercising a puppy / young Italian Greyhound
Grooming
Safe Flea & Tick Prevention
Common health problems
Broken legs / fractures
Vet care & insurance
Essential kit
Frequently Asked Questions
Finding an IG
Researching IGs
Meetup with some IGs
IG show listings
Online research
Is an IG right for you?
Adopting an IG
Re-homing criteria
Adopting a golden oldie
Adoption process
Register with the Rescue
Buying an IG
Online puppy adverts
Licensed & Commercial Breeders
Avoiding puppy farmers
Researching pedigrees
Support us
Become a Friend of the Rescue
Newsletters
Donate
In Memory Tributes
Leave a legacy
Used Stamp Appeal
Blog
Contact
Shop
Rescue Charity Collection
Christmas Collection
Greetings Cards
For Home & Away
For Italian Greyhounds
Italian Greyhound Collectibles
0
Home
/
About Italian Greyhounds
/ Exercise
Exercise
Italian Greyhounds are small Sighthounds full of energy and they need apprpriate physical exercise and appropriate psychological exercise to work it off.
Italian Greyhounds are an absolute joy to see running free
Physical  exercise
A fit and healthy Italian Greyhound will need a minimum of one walk each day lasting a minimum of one hour. If you can fit in two walks a day then all the better. Exercise is not just about expending physical energy, walking also satisfies many canine psychological needs such as instinct to travel when hunting for food, and sniffing new scents.
Exercise should be age-appropriate and care should be taken when
managing and exercising puppies and young IGs
that the physical activities they’re exposed to are age appropriate to prevent long-term damage to their developing joints.
A well-socialised and balanced Italian Greyhound loves to play in the great outdoors and meet other dogs. Due to their diminutive build, and the fact that some Italian Greyhounds believe themselves to be great big scary dogs, caution should be exercised with large breed dogs as a playful game of chase could easily lead to a nasty accident if the big dog crashes into the small and delicate frame of an Italian Greyhound at full speed.
Free-running off-lead is essential where it is safe to do so. Don’t let your Italian Greyhound off lead near busy roads or near live stock. And if the ground where you are walking is very rutted or if there are lots of rabbit holes, think very carefully before allowing your Italian Greyhound to run free – these little dogs can run very fast and uneven ground can cause them to lose their footing very easily and lead to injuries including broken legs.
Italian Greyhounds are Sighthounds by nature which means that they have high prey drives and an inclination to chase anything that moves – particularly rabbits and squirrels.  Even Italian Greyhounds that are usually responsive to their owner’s recall are unlikely to come back if they are in mid-chase.
Some Italian Greyhounds, particularly if they have not had the best start in life, can be anxious or fearful. If something spooks an Italian Greyhound it could bolt so owners of dogs that are fearful or nervous should take extra care to be aware of anything that might upset their Italian Greyhound.
When exercising your dog, make sure you do so responsibly and make sure that you have full control over your dog at all times.
Canine enrichment
It’s so important that an Italian Greyhound gets appropriate psychological stimulation as well as physical exercise. It may be that a good walk and all the sniffing and visual stimulation is enough for some IGs, but others may need more. That is not to say you should over-stimulate your IG – that can also lead to problems!
There are some fantastic activities that you can do with your IG, whether at home, outdoors, or at a club, that tap into canine instincts from stalking, hunting, sniffing, chasing, or just simple human companionships, etc. Here are just a few ideas:
Cannine Hoopers
Agility
Lure Coursing
Pets as Therapy
Canicross
Scentwork
Obedience
Trick training
Donate to support our work >
Join us on Facebook
Search
Search
From the Blog
New RVC research finds how a puppy is purchased shapes its health later in life
Join an Iggy Tea Party in support of IGRC
Managing Stress in Rescue Dogs
Photo call! Is your IG a potential star for our 2026 Wall Calendar?
What to do if your Italian Greyhound has a suspected leg fracture / broken leg
Treating leg fractures / broken legs in Italian Greyhounds
ADdress
The Italian Greyhound Rescue Charity
Yew Tree Cottage
Near Orrest
Windermere
Cumbria, LA23 1JT
United Kingdom
Registered charity number: 1104157
CONTACT INFO
Contact Us
Email:
info@italiangreyhoundrescuecharity.org.uk
Phone:
07459 952644
(available 10am-4pm daily)
Terms & conditions
Rescue Shop – Terms & Conditions of Sale
Privacy Policy
© The Italian Greyhound Rescue Charity 2026. All rights reserved.
Your basket
(items: 0)
Products in basket
Product
Details
Total
Subtotal
£0.00
Shipping and discounts calculated at checkout.
View my basket
Go to checkout
Your basket is currently empty!
Start shopping
Loading Comments...
You must be
logged in
to post a comment.
Notifications
